>> Lucas Ruebbelke: Our favorite graphic,
with arrows.
So we've seen this, template,
metadata, class, events, properties.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: Now I want you to
think for a second, what'd it mean
if we could take our properties and
our events and make them totally custom.
For instance right now we've been binding
to the click event and the submit event.
So remember you combine
to really any dom event.
But what if you wanted
a specific event to your domain.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: What
would that look like?
Well, exactly like in the other event or
property binding.
And how we accomplish that
is with inputs and outputs.
So when you're doing property binding,
what are we doing?
We're saying, I have this value that
I want to pass to this element.
You're passing it in, AKA, an input.
So I mean, I think you would, the mental
mouth of the direction makes sense.
And when something happens on
an element that you wanna capture,
like a click, same thing.
It's, like,
I have this thing that I want to surface.
Out of this component and put in to the
parent component, so it's an outputter.
And so
now have this kind of unidirectional
data flow between a parent component and
a child component.
And so we'll talk about kind of how
they sit together in just a moment.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: So
we've seen that we can put components into
an application via routes.
But for the most part, most components
will end up in your application.
Because basically you've put
a selector into a parent template.
So if you have, for instance items list.
Well, we want that to go
into the items component.
How do we get that in there.
We take swiper,
we put it into the template.
So, the surface area between a child and
a parent is at the template.
Does that make sense?
So when we want to instantiate, so
we've been doing this since
we created our components.
What do we do?
We just take the selector and
drop it into either the home component has
kind of been the one we've been targeting.
But that's where they live,
that's the surface area.
So from the parent side, nothing changes.
In terms of communicating to a child.
They simply are passing in properties,
pulling out events.
Just like, if you're pulling in
native properties, native dom events.
But on the child component, what is
a property binding from the parent to the
child, internally is defined as an input.
Now from the parent,
what is considered an event
is defined as an output on the child.
So a child component over
the any component but,
in this case the child component.
Defines what comes in and what goes out.
And so, what are we doing here?
We are creating essentially
a component contract.
A component contract, from a high level,
it's an agreement between a developer and
a user that this is how
this is going to work.
Well, inputs and
outputs define that contract.
It is essentially the API
of that component.
And so that essentially acts as a contract
to any component that
is going to consume it.
Now, it also acts as a visual aid.
So that we can infer what
a component does just by looking at
it's inputs and outputs.
So think of input and
output as the component API.
So app items list, I can look at this.
And because I know what property by are,
and I understand the direction of them.
I can say well, this list takes
an input of items, and
it has an output of selected and deleted.
These are the properties that it wants,
and
these are the events it's going
to emit when something happens.
And so very clearly I can,
one input, two outputs.